Hello everyone! In this tutorial, we will create a crosshair with you. This will be a temporary solution, since
we will be looking at widgets later , but for now we will just draw it using two lines.
If we look at the world settings, we will see that there is a special class called HUD.
It stands for Head up display. This class is responsible for rendering the interface, which will be
superimposed on top of the game. We can inherit from this class and draw all the
elements we need using this class. Let's get started. Let's go to C ++ classes.
Selecting a new C ++ class. Show all classes and find the HUD in the search. Click the next button.
We name the class STUGameHUD. Let's put this class in the UI (user interface) folder. Click the create class button.
I immediately added the UI folder to the build file.
Go to the header file of our HUD and let's drop into the base AHUD class.
Press Ctr + F and search for a function called DrawHUD.
This function is responsible for rendering. It is called every frame and in this function we can draw lines,
rectangles, display textures, text, and so on.
It's virtual, so let's redefine it in our HUD and add the necessary logic to draw the crosshair.
And we will add an additional function to encapsulate the rendering code in it. Let's call it DrawCrossHair.
Go to the .cpp file. We create the body of the DrawHUD function.
We call the parent function through Super. We also create the body of the DrawCrossHair function.
And add a call to the DrawCrossHair function in DrawHUD.
The function of the AHUD class that allows you to draw lines on the screen is called DrawLine.
It has several arguments: the start point on the screen, the end point on the screen, the
line color, and the line thickness. So, we have a function that can draw lines.
Now we somehow need to calculate the center of our screen.
Let's create an additional variable of type int32. Let's call it CenterX.
To get the value of the screen size, we need an additional object called Canvas.
In this object, all graphic primitives are drawn directly.
And it is in it that the dimensions of the current window are located. If we switch to canvas.
Scroll down and find the two variables we need. They are named SizeX and SizeY.
We will also need to include the Engine / Canvas.h header file. Let's start with this.
Write #include "Engine / Canvas.h"
Assign CenterX = Canvas-> SizeX to the variable and create an additional CenterY variable.
So only this is not CenterX, but SizeX.
Also change to SizeY.
To calculate the center of the screen, let's use a special type that is new to us. It is called TInterval <>
It is a segment and stores only two elements of the type with which we instantiate the template.
In our case, this is a float. We name the object center and pass the
point to the class constructor , which is the center of our screen. SizeX is multiplied by 0.5 and SizeY is also multiplied by 0.5.
We can press F12 to make sure that there really are two variables, Min and Max.
Let's create additional variables to avoid hardcode.
We will have two calls to the DrawLine function: a horizontal line and a vertical line. However, at the same time, we
will not make the data to the property variable, because in the future we will redo this
sight through the widget, that is, such a temporary solution. The first variable is called HalfLineSize.
She will be responsible for half of the line, because we will draw with you from the center
and put this half to the right, left, up and down. Let it be the default 10.
The next variable will be responsible for the line thickness. Let's call it LineThickness. And by default, let it be 2.
And the extreme variable that we need is this line color. We call it LineColor.
And let's paint the crosshair in green. Using the static constant FlinearColor :: Green
So, we are ready to draw the line. Let's start with a horizontal line.
The first argument to the DrawLine function is the x-coordinate. Therefore, we take the center Min
and subtract our constant HalfLineSize. Thus, we move along X by 10 points to the left.
The next parameter is the starting Y coordinate. It will simply be Center.Max.
The next parameter is the final X coordinate. Therefore, we take Center.Min with you and now add the HalfLineSize.
Thus, we move to the right by this amount - 10 points. End point on Y does not change - Center.Max
The last 2 parameters are line color and line thickness. Therefore, we pass our parameters,
which we created. So the horizontal line is ready. We proceed to the vertical line.
Now we will have a fixed X. The Y coordinate will change, so the first parameter is StartX = Center.Min
Y Coordinate = Center.Max - HalfLineSize
That is, we go up 10 points and the end point in X is just the center, and along Y we add the HalfLineSize to the center.
And also the color and thickness of the lines.
We drew a horizontal and vertical line with you. Everything is ready for us. We can also get rid
of the intermediate parameters SizeX and SizeY and pass it directly to the constructor.
And the last thing we need to do is override the HUD class in game mode.
Everything is ready for us. Launch the editor.
Check in world settings that the HUD class has changed and launch our game. We see a green cross in the middle.
Moreover, if we launch the game with you in a separate window. Let's choose New Editor Window.
Let's start resizing the window and the cross will remain in the center, because the Canvas parameters are recalculated,
and we draw lines every frame. But with this position of the camera, naturally the
cross looks somehow ridiculous. Therefore, let's change the camera settings now and also take the
lives of the character, because in the future we will still redo them through the interface. Open the blueprint of
our character and in the spring arm component change the Y coordinate of the socket offset, for example, by 100,
that is, we move the camera to the right and the character will be on the left side of the screen.
Let's go to the health text component and hide it in a slightly tricky way. Let's search for owner.
Components have two special properties called OwnerNoSee and OnlyOwnerSee.
Using the property data, you can control the rendering of the component, depending on whether we own it or not.
Let's set OwnerNoSee so that the text is not rendered over the character we are controlling.
And also reset the rotation of this component so that it is rotated towards us above the other character.
We start the game. All. Now it will be convenient for us to aim. The character is shifted to the left and there are no lives above him.
But above the other, lives are still displayed. This is due to our OwnerNoSee flag.
And let's, since our course is about C ++ in the UE,
we will set the offset and OwnerNoSee settings through the code.
We assign the offset vector (0, 100, 80) to the SocketOffset variable of the Spring Arm component
and call the SetOwnerNoSee function of the health text component with the argument true.